[MUSIC]
A graph or chart uses visual elements
to communicate information about data,
about numbers and related facts.
Just as grammar now owns verbs,
adjectives and other parts of speech,
provides a protocol for
communicating ideas with language.
You can think of a grammar of
graphics as a protocol for
communicating data concepts
with visualizations.
This grammar of graphics, strives to make
visualizations as intuitive as possible.
So anyone looking at
a graphic can quickly and
effortlessly understand
the underlying data.
The grammar of graphics has four basic
layers, starting with the data itself,
followed by aesthetics, scales.
And finally design which
ties everything together.
Let's take a simple example and
see how we can apply this grammar.
Suppose you're an investor tracking
the stock of a particular rocket company.
Your data consists of daily values for
the stocks opening price,
closing price, high value,
low value and volume of shares traded.
To see how things change over time,
you start by creating a graph that his
dates along the X axis and
data values along the Y axis.
You can choose dots as your aesthetic,
with the distance of
each dot from the X axis.
Corresponding to a specific value for
each date, which comprises your scale.
Now, you obviously don't want to
plot everything on the same graph.
It would be too messy to be useful,
even if you applied color or
shape aesthetic to
the different quantities.
So you start by focusing on just one
value, the stock's closing price.
You can easily see how the price went up
sharply toward the end of January and
then quickly drop.
But be careful,
you might miss some useful information.
Adding a visual cue lines
connecting the dots,
reveals an interesting structure,
a double hump.
Now, through intentional design,
you can tell a story that explains more
deeply what the numbers are communicating.
From your experience in the world of
finance, you surmise that the rocket
company's stock price followed
the evolution of an asset bubble.
The similarity between
the rocket company graph and
an example graph depicting
a typical bubble.
Solidifies your conclusion and serves as
a starting point for further analysis.
For instance,
you can develop a new graphic by
looking at additional information
to just the closing price values.
And mapping that data to
a different set of aesthetics.
For each date, you can use a thin vertical
line to represent the range of high and
low stock prices.
The days volatility and
bars placed on top of the vertical lines
to indicate the difference between
opening and closing prices.
Blue bars indicate that the stock
closed higher than it opened and
red bars indicate that it closed lower.
Thus the addition of the new aesthetics
reveals that opening prices were mostly
higher than closing prices.
And that the run up to the spike,
came along with very high volatility,
a narrative is beginning to take shape.
Finally, you can apply some
statistical analysis to the data,
such as calculating the rolling
volatility for each date.
And plotting it as a shaded area on
top of the closing price graph line.
The combination of this derived
quantity with raw data,
further develops your insight
into what happened historically.